README.md, before:

# multi-cluster-configs

## Top level directories:

* bootstrap: Contains configuration for bootstrapping the GitOps System.

* cluster-configs/base: Components that need to be installed or configured in the cluster.

* cluster-configs/overlay: Selects components to be installed into the cluster.

* tools : Helper scripts (e.g. setting up CI for gitlab & linting ).


### GitOps:
* [What is GitOps](https://opengitops.dev/)
* [App of Apps pattern](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/cluster-bootstrapping/)
* [Red Hat CoP GitOps Catalog](https://github.com/redhat-cop/gitops-catalog): A collection of curated GitOps patterns and examples.
  
### Bootstrap process:

Configuring a new cluster (e.g. here dev cluster ) requires the execution of the following commands :

**Note 🚨:** Before proceeding, ensure you have created the necessary Kubernetes secrets with the correct permissions for both the ArgoCD (GitOps) Operator to access the Git repository and for the External Secrets Operator to authenticate with your chosen secret store (e.g., Gitlab,Vault).

1. **Install the OpenShift GitOps Operator**

The OpenShift GitOps Operator is the foundation of our GitOps setup. It installs and manages ArgoCD on the cluster.
```
kustomize build bootstrap/overlays/dev/gitops-operator | oc apply -f - 
```

2. **Install the External Secrets Operator**

The External Secrets Operator is used to fetch secrets from a secret store (like Vault or Gitlab) and create Kubernetes secrets from them. This allows us to keep sensitive data out of Git repository.

```bash
kustomize build bootstrap/overlays/dev/external-secrets-operator | oc apply -f -
``` 

3. **App of Apps Pattern is executed**

Once these bootstrap components are installed, the `appofapp.yaml` in `bootstrap/overlays/dev/gitops-operator` will deploy the cluster configurations defined in `cluster-configs`.

## Contributing

Please see the [development and testing guide](docs/develop_and_test_changes.md) for details on how to contribute to this project.

Commit message:

docs: enhance README with overview, prerequisites, and improved notes

README.md, after:

# multi-cluster-configs

## Overview

This repository contains the GitOps configurations for managing multiple OpenShift clusters. It uses a combination of Kustomize and ArgoCD (via the OpenShift GitOps Operator) to define, deploy, and manage the lifecycle of various applications and services across different environments.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

- **`oc` CLI:** The OpenShift Command-line Interface.
- **`kustomize`:** A tool for customizing Kubernetes configurations.
- **`git`:** For version control.
- **Cluster Access:** Appropriate permissions to the target OpenShift cluster.
- **Secrets:** Necessary secrets configured for ArgoCD to access the Git repository and for the External Secrets Operator to access the secret store.

## Top level directories:

* bootstrap: Contains configuration for bootstrapping the GitOps System.
* cluster-configs/base: Components that need to be installed or configured in the cluster.
* cluster-configs/overlay: Selects components to be installed into the cluster.
* tools : Helper scripts (e.g. setting up CI for gitlab & linting ).

### GitOps Resources:
* [What is GitOps](https://opengitops.dev/)
* [App of Apps pattern](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/cluster-bootstrapping/)
* [Red Hat CoP GitOps Catalog](https://github.com/redhat-cop/gitops-catalog): A collection of curated GitOps patterns and examples.
  
### Bootstrap process:

Configuring a new cluster (e.g. the `dev` cluster) requires executing the following commands.

**IMPORTANT NOTE ON SECRETS** 🚨

Before proceeding, ensure you have created the necessary Kubernetes secrets with the correct permissions for:
- **ArgoCD (GitOps)**: To access the Git repository.
- **External Secrets Operator**: To authenticate with your chosen secret store (e.g., Vault, GitLab, etc.).

These are critical prerequisites for the bootstrap process to succeed.

1. **Install the OpenShift GitOps Operator**

The OpenShift GitOps Operator is the foundation of our GitOps setup. It installs and manages ArgoCD on the cluster.
```
kustomize build bootstrap/overlays/dev/gitops-operator | oc apply -f - 
```

2. **Install the External Secrets Operator**

The External Secrets Operator is used to fetch secrets from a secret store (like Vault or Gitlab) and create Kubernetes secrets from them. This allows us to keep sensitive data out of Git repository.

```bash
kustomize build bootstrap/overlays/dev/external-secrets-operator | oc apply -f -
``` 

3. **App of Apps Pattern is executed**

Once these bootstrap components are installed, the `appofapp.yaml` in `bootstrap/overlays/dev/gitops-operator` will deploy the cluster configurations defined in `cluster-configs`.

## Contributing

Please see the [development and testing guide](docs/develop_and_test_changes.md) for details on how to contribute to this project.
